The government-appointed interlocutor for Kashmir, Dineshwar Sharma, has his work cut out. The ink hadn’t even dried on the order appointing him when a political skirmish broke out between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The core issue is an old one – autonomy. The statement by a former Congress minister that many seeking azaadi or independence were actually seeking autonomy raised the hackles of the BJP which termed such utterances anti-national. Meanwhile, the National Conference, which hasn’t held a so-called delegates’ meeting in 15 years decided to do so and released a statement supporting more autonomy for Kashmir. The National Conference and its rival in the valley, the People’s Democratic Party (an ally of the BJP in the state) would like the issue of autonomy to be discussed. The BJP, though, has been consistent in its opposition to Article 370 of the Constitution that offers this autonomy to the state although it has stopped short of trying to amend this. While it is true that no dialogue is possible in the backdrop of violence, such statements and counter-statements do have the potential to weaken the interlocutor’s position. The atmosphere has so far been conducive to Mr Sharma’s mission. Violence in the valley has reduced (relatively at least) and the Indian army has been very successful in thwarting terrorists. And the home minister has made it clear that Mr Sharma is free to engage with whoever he wanted to, indicating an openness to talk with hard-line separatist groups. The war of words over autonomy has struck a discordant note.

Given the unequal power relations at most workplaces, invariably when the harasser is a man in a superior position, there is a distinct failure on the part of the employer to protect the woman’s career interests. However, the fact that such extreme steps are being considered by many women suggests that the institutional mechanisms which are meant to protect against harassers are not working as they ought to. The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 provides for all organised-sector institutions to have a committee of five to look into cases of harassment and resolve them. At least three members of this panel must be women. But this is where many organisations have been negligent. Even in cases in which such committees exist, studies find that the issue is rarely resolved in a manner satisfactory to the woman who is almost always in a subordinate position to the harasser. Given the unequal power relations at most workplaces, invariably when the harasser is a man in a superior position, there is a distinct failure on the part of the employer to protect the woman’s career interests. This often leads to resignation or termination of services of competent and qualified women who then have no recourse but to approach the police and law courts or as the current trend shows, the media.

The outgoing chairman of the People’s Bank of China, Zhou Xiaochuan, dropped a bombshell at the Communist Party congress last week when he said that China could be headed for a ‘Minsky moment’, rattling markets the world over. The late economist Hyman Minsky had presciently said that periods of high growth and stability generate overconfidence and a rash of speculative activity promoted by the banking system, triggering periodic financial crises, such as the 2008 meltdown. China’s total debt, household and corporate, is more than three times its GDP. To place this in perspective, the US’ total debt as a proportion of GDP was about 170 per cent (against China’s well over 200 per cent today) when the Lehman crisis broke out. According to a report by Crescat Capital, the value of financial assets held by households and non-profit organisations in China is over six times their disposable income, similar to the levels seen during the 2007 housing bubble in the US and the dotcom bust of the late 1990s. China’s banks waded through the post-2008 slowdown by creating more debt to generate a rash of infrastructure assets whose productivity was low. Meanwhile, a shadow banking system is flourishing in China as a huge Ponzi operation (debt is used to pay debt when cash flows neither cover principal nor interest). Equities and the real estate markets are frothy. China’s elites are already taking their money out of the country. If the crisis intensifies, China may resort to quantitative easing to clean up balance sheets, where non-performing loans could make up over a fifth of the assets. A spurt in money supply could lead to depreciation of the currency. Even if an outright crash is somehow avoided (a state-run banking system may be able to control outcomes somewhat), the world should be prepared for a tremor more intense than in August 2015, when the renminbi was sharply devalued.

In what is turning out to be a crisis for Indian sports, the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) has warned that India’s National Anti-Doping Agency (Nada) could lose its accreditation if Indian cricketers continue to refuse to submit themselves to an international dope testing regimen. In fact, Wada has asked the International Cricket Council (ICC) to direct the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to allow drug testing of Indian cricketers. Wada has also written to Union sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore asking for urgent assistance in the matter. If Nada indeed loses its accreditation, it would put the participation of all Indian athletes in international sports under a cloud. The government has therefore responded, rightly, by giving Nada full power to conduct the dope tests. At the heart of the problem is the objection of Indian cricketers to the Wada code’s ‘whereabouts’ clause. The latter stipulates that athletes have to provide details of where they can be contacted for a one-hour window every day to facilitate out-of-competition drug testing. For years Indian cricketers have opposed this on the grounds that the provision violates their privacy and presents a security challenge. This argument is hardly tenable, as sportspersons everywhere undergo such a regimen.
